Mirco Economics:

“The study of decision making undertaking by individual”
Individual may be any one
Consumer. (Rational person)
Producer. (Wise)
Firms.    (Making decision about products)

MACROECONOMICS
“It is the study of the behavior of economy as a whole”
National income.
Economic development and planning.
Unemployment.
International trade.
Balance of payment.
Public sector.
Inflation

Some other issues
Agriculture/Industrial Sector
Banking System 
Islamic Banking System
Privatization
Time Value of Money
Alternative Analysis
Cost Benefit Analysis
Theory of Interest

Nationalization
Devaluation 
Economic Systems
Islamic Economic System
Theory of Exchange Rate
Globalization 
Discount Cash Flows
Poverty

Concepts of :

Public Sector
Private Sector
Personal

Scarcity:

These three questions create theory of Choice but the resources are scarce and so concept of scarcity arises.
“The amount of something which is less than the amount required to meet the demand of the people at market price.”
So Scarcity forces us to make choices.

Opportunity Cost:

It creates another concept called Opportunity Cost.
“Things which we sacrifice to get something”
Example 
Opportunity cost of your degree is __________.

Possibility Lines:

Opportunity Cost concept helps us to develop possibility lines as follows
Consumption Possibility Line
Production Possibility Line

Consumption Possibility Line:


For an increase in quantity of Y, amount of x will be sacrificed for consumption.

Production Possibility Line:
For an increase in quantity of Y, amount of x will be sacrificed for Production.

Engineering Economics:

“These principles are utilized to analyze alternative uses of financial resources, particularly in relation to the physical assets and the operation of an organization.”
So  Engineering Economics will prove to be invaluable to you in assessing the economic merits of alternative uses of your personal funds.

Engineering Economic Analysis - Seven Steps:

1. Recognition and formulation of the problem.
2. Development of the feasible alternatives.
3. Development of the net cash flows (and other prospective outcomes) for each alternative.
4. Selection of a criterion (or criteria) for determining the preferred alternative.
5. Analysis and comparison of the alternatives.
6. Selection of the preferred alternative.
7. Performance monitoring and post-evaluation.
